Title: Pelican Hello World
Date: 2017-07-29
Modified: 2017-07-29 12:35
Category: Python
Tags: pelican, blog
Slug: pelican-hello-world
Authors: Jason L Weirather
Summary: A trick with Jinja2 to ensure the client’s browser updates the site's stylesheets each time the site is edited.  I also give Python-Jinja2-Pelican a thumbs up. 🤓👍👍👍

I wonder how many blogs start with a note on how they made their blog? 🤔
It may be a bit hackneyed.  

I’m building this on Pelican, a python based platform which uses Jinja2 templates.  This is convenient for me because I’ve also been using Flask recently, where I also make use of Jinja2 templates.

They are pretty intuative and easy to get into ways to block off an organize HTML.

I did have one little bit of development from this process I think is worth sharing.

### Objective
Ensure browser updates linked stylesheets each time the site is rebuilt, rather than using cached versions.

### Strategy
Use Jinja2 to add a random version identifier to the URL of the stylesheet. I saw this trick of adding a random identifyer to the URL over on stackoverflow[1] and got it work in the Jinja2 framework this blog is using. Each time the site is built, a random string is added as a GET format variable on the URL and thus the browser is encouraged to reload this new entity. A good and a bad thing to this approach is that the version of the CSS is only updated when the site is rebuilt, not every time the client loads the site.  If you need it every time ... better be using flask or javascript to accomplish that.  Fortunetly this is exactly the behavior we need for a static site like this.

### Code 

Where a version string is added to the URL of the style sheet. I wanted to do something like that without this blog since I’ll be editing the style sheet a lot, and I found a way to get UUID4’s into the jinja2.  Its kind of a hack because I could only find a way to make filter functions.  So thats what I setup first.

`pelicanconf.py`
```{python}
from uuid import uuid4
def get_uuid4_string(not_used):
   return str(uuid4())
JINJA_FILTERS = {'uuid4':get_uuid4_string}
```

Now with the filter in place we can put it to work to emit UUID4 strings.

`base.html`
```{jinja2}
{# Hack of a jinja2 filter to add uuid4's to links to skirt browser caching #}
<link href="{{ SITEURL }}/theme/static/css/style.css?version={{ 'whatever'|uuid4 }}" rel="stylesheet" />
```

### Result

And if we inspect the html of this page… `index.html` we can see it looks okay!

```{html}
   <head>
   <title>Hello World - A bioinformatics adventure</title>
   <meta charset="UTF-8" />
   <link href="/theme/static/css/style.css?version=7921c390-0b9d-4c6b-81a0-6e18fd59683d" rel="stylesheet" />
   </head>
```

[1]: https://stackoverflow.com/a/2263105